---
title: "Remembering Marly and Frank L. on Father's Day 2021"
date: "Posted 2021-07-18"
---
Marlyn C. Huiras and Frank L. Mascitti were my two grandfathers. 

These two had many different ways and ideas. At first glance they had little in common besides their children (Jason and Julie) being in love . Marly and Frank came from contrasting places - indeed, small town Minnesota is so different from south Philadelphia that it might as well be on the moon (at least the East-coasters would think so!). Still, both came of age during a time of great change and reckoning for America and for the world. The depression began soon after Pop was born and was still raging as Marly was in diapers. During their teenage years, our country fought a war on both sides of the globe against the greatest evils humankind has ever seen. There is no doubt that the times in which they matured shaped their world views and habits....but just as surely, they blazed their own unique lives. 

Despite their different styles, Marly and Frank shared many traits and values. Each held a deep sense of pride for their children and grandchildren. They expressed their intellect and creativity - Marly with paintings and, sketches; poems and totems, and Frank with his crown molding, doweling, and automobile details. Both had the utmost eye for craftsmanship, and no project was ever truly finished. The quest for perfection might have rendered them a bit inwardly tortured. Perhaps it leaked beyond hobbies and into their professional lives and relationships. Each could become locked in a single-minded (read: hardheaded) pursuit of whatever was on their mind, sometimes with little sense for "reading the room."
At a minimum, then intense way in which they experienced the world underlay their meticulous handwriting, eloquent oration, and all-in support of their grandchildren's activities. 
Like all of us, they were not without flaw. Occasionally there would be a lapse in judgement or shortness of temper - but these were never for a shortness of love. 

Both left us suddenly- leaving us wishing for more time with them, yet also knowing we’d been blessed with more than enough. 
I miss my grandfathers sorely. Yet today, in on 21st Father's Day of the 21st century, we do not mourn, but celebrate, for they inspire us often and their spirit shows no signs of weakening. 
